7.3.46 Realization (from Dependencies)

Description

Realization is a specialized abstraction relationship between two sets of model elements, one representing a specification
(the supplier) and the other represents an implementation of the latter (the client). Realization can be used to model
stepwise refinement, optimizations, transformations, templates, model synthesis, framework composition, etc.
Attributes

Constraints

No additional constraints

Semantics

A Realization signifies that the client set of elements are an implementation of the supplier set, which serves as the
specification. The meaning of ‘implementation’ is not strictly defined, but rather implies a more refined or elaborate form
in respect to a certain modeling context. It is possible to specify a mapping between the specification and implementation
elements, although it is not necessarily computable.

7.3.25 InterfaceRealization (from Interfaces)

Description

An InterfaceRealization is a specialized Realization relationship between a Classifier and an Interface. This relationship
signifies that the realizing classifier conforms to the contract specified by the Interface.

Constraints

No additional constraints

Semantics

A classifier that implements an interface specifies instances that are conforming to the interface and to any of its
ancestors. A classifier may implement a number of interfaces. The set of interfaces implemented by the classifier are its
provided interfaces and signify the set of services the classifier offers to its clients. A classifier implementing an interface
supports the set of features owned by the interface. In addition to supporting the features, a classifier must comply with
the constraints owned by the interface.

An interface realization relationship between a classifier and an interface implies that the classifier supports the set of
features owned by the interface, and any of its parent interfaces. For behavioral features, the implementing classifier will
have an operation or reception for every operation or reception, respectively, defined by the interface. For properties, the
realizing classifier will provide functionality that maintains the state represented by the property. While such may be done
by direct mapping to a property of the realizing classifier, it may also be supported by the state machine of the classifier
or by a pair of operations that support the retrieval of the state information and an operation that changes the state
information.